[Music]
so today I'm going to share some very
inconclusive sprawling material there's
some projects to see but mainly I'm just
going to pose a lot of questions and
hopefully you'll either leave very
energized or completely confused and
both are great outcomes as far as I'm
concerned so quick note about myself I'm
from Charleston South Carolina I moved
to Atlanta
from there and came to San Francisco
about two and a half three years ago I
come from design architecture originally
actually and I got into art making about
seven years ago and now I'm as Matt was
saying I'm the director of curation and
the visual experiences at Dolby
Laboratories here in San Francisco you
know I've done a lot of different types
of art making mostly visual based really
some sculpture I got into dazzle quite a
bit some of you probably familiar with
dazzled black and white camouflages
battleships and the World War one you
know I was really into installing
objects and the landscapes you know
playing with geometries mixed with
organic backdrops eventually a you know
played around with hanging fluorescent
lights like the tube lights like in
large derelict spaces in and around
Atlanta and then eventually in places
during my travels so this is just you
know some background of myself I really
got really obsessed with industrial
plastics and I started like pouring the
stuff over inanimate objects like my
daughter's Barbies
various things around the house you know
I'm not really the first to live to move
to work to make art you know people have
been doing this for centuries and you
know I'm just really following suit what
I do know is I like to make new things
and much like Toshi you know curiosity
and wonder is really my output as many
of you here in the room today what I
really enjoy doing is making imaginative
things with others collaborations yes
but I also like being this great steward
to creators almost starting a seed that
can activate others is really a passion
of mine I really like to provide these
conditions that artists can plug into
you know the results tend to be bigger
than oneself you know a lot of the work
that I was showing there is really you
know me sort of in scientific discovery
mode with as an art practice but there's
something really incredible about
creating something that's cohesive that
that artists can work within and I guess
I'm not really talking about like
providing physical space but just these
these common threads or the stickiness
that holds things together a few years
ago I was participated in a project and
Atlanta led by the creative community at
the goat farm it's a it's literally a
goat farm with artist studios it was
called the dumpster project and they can
permitted construction dumpsters
throughout the city downtown Atlanta and
each artist did their own thing in each
of these construction dumpsters it was
great because it was public art and then
once you've got them permit
from the city it's like you're your
queen right so it's not you've you don't
have to ask 15 city organizations at
that point so it not much different I
guess from the marketing prototype
festival that gray area was so integral
in and leading and incubating you know
my project I filled a dumpster with sand
and I buried a bunch of fluorescent
lights in it and you know stuck some eye
beams out of it and at night my
collaborator would perform in the space
it was a sort of like a public art space
and others they did completely different
things with their spaces and you know
the aim of this project was to activate
an area downtown that like most modern
cities become completely barren at
nighttime so using art as a way to
activate and engage the public what I
liked is how the dumpster provided this
physical vehicle and then what each
artist did inside of it was really
completely up to them right so I'm going
to be posing a bunch of questions this
thing that I've been talking about
creating this fluid bubble thing where
artists plug into it is it a vehicle is
it a shell you know many of you probably
can attest to the value of constraints
and creativity constraints have this way
of forcing out creativity but how
structured did you get with with with
those constraints I want to read this
poem for you the first cold shower
even the monkey seems to want a little
coat a straw
I think it's kind of funny to think
about a monkey with a straw coat
this is haiku so it's a structure right
so the point here is that it has this
consistent structure whether that's in
syllables or like a sonic rhyming meter
and you know is is it really about
providing a format for other creators
you know so llywydd leave and distancing
the artist from the artifact and in fact
he would make written instructions for
his wall drawings so the set of
instructions for the art was itself the
art rather than the artifact it produced
conditional design workbook is a design
method you know formulated by a group of
artists and designers
if foregrounds process over the finished
product so as a design strategy it's got
some a set of rules and conditions that
stimulate collaboration between
participants and what it encourages is
these unpredictable outcomes and you
know so I I you know mary shares this
with me and you know my head is
wondering is this it is this is it about
providing procedures for other creators
you know procedures remove the author
from the activity and much of what I
really love to do is to meet new people
and work with people that human
relationship many of you in the audience
probably you maybe have made code
libraries that others can build new
things with and I really commend this
form of giving to a creative community
but I'm not really sure that that's
that's really what I'm talking about
here is it's about building blocks that
you give to the masses and you let go
like a bird and it blossoms on its own
you know I myself not really interested
in giving giving prescribed tools to
people hey we're going to do this
project and everyone's got to use a red
pencil I'm not sure that that's it
either Matt mentioned that I am working
at Dolby Laboratories so Dolby exists
right at that intersection of science
and art we study the brain to understand
how to model the sensorial systems and
through that we create new tools that
enable creators to make more immersive
experiences so reach a recent project
that we were doing we've been providing
artwork within our physical environments
as a way to inspire innovation to
engineers which is very challenging with
engineers I'll talk to you about that
later
but with this project we wanted to
define maybe the edges of the paper or
provide like a wireframe or a foundation
for for artists and we gave this to 22
artists around around the globe and then
they basically came back
[Music]
and you know there was something really
about this project that yes we were
defining this edge but when the artists
were allowed to interpret that however
they wanted to it could be about science
and art it could be just about their
tools or their practice you know res
Ollie John's work before that bull box
labs they each came back with something
amazing and I was I was just giddy like
a Christmas morning you know like
there's there's a surprise and delight
that I have whenever you know something
that has this common thread comes back
and and and an artist have undermined it
or you know some planted it it's just
really really incredible so I mean the
question is is this thing that template
is it the form of some sort of sketch or
is it about defining the edges you know
I don't know maybe I want to talk to you
a little bit about the dream collection
agency so one of the artists that was
working on the dumpster project he was
making a well where it was a
participatory and the dumpster people
would make wishes and put down the well
and then he would collect those wishes
and cataloged them and then share them
on a website well we got to talking and
we really have this both have this
fascination with dreams and we thought
about this idea of collecting people's
dreams and creating a kind of like a
catalog or database of them and we were
really like into you know those signs
that are like we buy houses around town
so we'd sort of this we wanted to like
set up a phone line using Twilio and
some other tools and basically like this
put these signs up around town for this
number and people could call them and
they could donate their dream - the
dream collection agency so we took all
the vernaculars of the street whether
you know you're pulling numbers or
throughout Atlanta and it was amazing
how many people called n we even you
know we sketched out the whole robocall
a lot of it had these empty loops where
you just get lost and and you know a
corporate messaging but this this
started out to be something where you
know it was just a phone line we were
doing it as an art project but as we got
talking more and more people became
interested in this mysterious thing and
we found a lot of inspiration through
film history like the game with Michael
Douglas
you guys remember CRS the Arg s like the
Jew jejune Institute and Cyberdyne
systems from Terminator we suddenly got
really excited let's make a fake company
and the purpose of that company will be
to collect people's dreams cataloged
those dreams and then convert those
dreams into virtual reality experiences
for others so we you know coming from
design I was able to kind of flex my art
director background and design and come
up with this whole palette we were
really quite obsessed with very mundane
spaces like in strip malls you know like
you know now serving 52 you know this
DMV type of experience so we you know we
came up with a brand mark and a tagline
and it was great because all we did was
begin to set this narrative and writers
and designers and actors would kind of
come out of the woodwork to contribute
to this thing and we didn't really know
what this was we just okay that sounds
great you want to do that that's awesome
so like graphic designer making how does
it work we crowdsource dreams we catalog
those dreams and we share them through
our dream experience facilities we even
devised a traveling show where we would
do kind of like a trade show or an expo
from the
mid-80s and it was it was incredible
success we you know we had our dream
technicians on staff our founder John
Titor gave a wonderful keynote
presentation he flew in from Sydney that
night and spoke why dreams were of great
value why we should pay attention to
them and why the audience should donate
their dreams so finally we found the
perfect space
we found our strip mall derelict
storefronts in downtown Atlanta and we
you know people came and volunteered to
be a part of this experience that you
would you would make an appointment you
would show up and you would run into
this lady who would check you in and you
would fill out a bunch of paperwork and
then you know you would you would wait
in the waiting room for like way too
long as part of the experience and then
you would come back and you could donate
your dream and then eventually you would
sit in sort of like this is our like
Total Recall type chair with the oculus
rift and you got to have a VR experience
of someone else's dream so we it was
almost like a performance performance
art piece I've got a little video I want
to show you this was our kind of like
our corporate pitch
[Music]
well the dream collection agency began
in 2012 our founder John Titor started
the company based on his neural
interfacing and bioengineering research
at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology we've since expanded to other
cities and we hope him to open our first
dream experience facility here in
Atlanta Georgia sometime around the fall
we're shooting for an October first
launch date what is the dream collection
agency we collect recycle and recreate
your dreams in a virtual reality
environment dreams have been studied at
an individual level for many years what
we're interested in is the collective
intriguing what can we learn through
studying dreams from different people
with different backgrounds and times and
places we believe the future of the
dream experience it doesn't take the
place just in this sleepy world we
intend to save dreams for eternity and
through the use of modern technology
recreate those dreams in the waking
world our professionally trained dream
technicians catalog your dreams and
inserts them into our database and then
we curate and recreate them in
three-dimensional virtual reality
environment it's completely immersive
and indistinguishable from in the
physical waking world the recreation
process is very intensive it requires an
army full of trained virtual reality
experts we've recruited that the top
minds from across the goal
in areas as diverse as artificial
intelligence mimetics and neural
interface all of this technology comes
together to recreate your dream exactly
as you experienced it mostly hi I'm Dale
Adams I'm the chief technology officer
here at the gem collection agency I'm
going to show you a few of the tools
that we use this is one of the newest
technologies that have come out using
the Samsung gear VR basically you take
this in there in virtual reality and
then after that they've been able to
recall their dreams more specifically
and have better remembrance of this day
so that is our oculus rift version of
our dream experience where people can go
and have these experiences in one of our
facilities throughout the country until
the 1950s dreams were thought of it as
this sort of dormant time you know that
was opposite waking life what we intend
to do with the dream collection is to
create dreams in the waking world to
catalog our dreams and to create a
backlog that will allow scientists in
the future to look to our dreams and
correlate them with world events natural
disasters and it's really telling I
think of the collective subconscious
which is what we're also very interested
in
[Music]
so yeah kind of like spinal tap for VR
or something I don't know yeah you know
what it is though like you know it
really took this life of its own because
you know we got social media marketers
were like oh I want to participate I
want to do this this and this and rely
okay sure and it was more like I don't
know it just made me question is this
really more about creating a narrative
or tone that other people can plug into
I want to return to to this for a moment
there's cohesion a common thread but the
spaces people create in are their own
and and that's something that's really
important to me I guess I was you know I
was up late at night last night trying
to come up with like what how would you
really describe this thing we're talking
about because I'm sure that there's a
word I don't I don't know is it a
platform is it a framework you know how
rigid is it I'm not really sure but
there's some common qualities about it
that I seek out in the sort of activity
so cohesion of course there's
malleability and flexibility so that it
adapts to as people contribute to it it
morphs it's very deliberate it's not
really it's not really crowdsourcing
because it's kind of based on these
human relationships and these creative
communities it's something that scales
but lack of control is really important
to me too if there's you've set
something in a motion or you've provided
these conditions and like I was saying
with the dhobi art series project it's
this the surprise you get in this
delight from people creating their own
space within this larger thing that I
don't know I don't know what this thing
is so anyways that's my talk
these are my addresses please check out
the dream collection agency website you
can find out more about the Adobe art
program adobe.com slash art and yeah
thank you guys
[Applause]